Task 3 -  Detection of DDoS Attack Using Regression Analysis

In this task, I have analyzed a web server log file to detect possible DDoS attack intervals.
A DDoS attack usually causes a sudden increase in the number of requests sent to a server within a short period of time. My goal was to identify such abnormal spikes using regression analysis.

To achieve my goal,  instead of manually reviewing thousands of log entries, I used Python. I have developed the python code to process the data and detect unusual traffic behavior automatically.
The log file was given from: http://max.ge/aiml_final/n_ghviniashvili25_15289_server.log, which is currently also uploaded to my repository as well.
This log file seems to be a standard data format used to store captured network traffic, often generated by tools like Wireshark or tcpdump. These files contain raw data packets, including header information and timestamps.

About Methodology: 

First, I opened the log file and read it line by line. From each line, I extracted the timestamp using a regular expression. The timestamp is important because DDoS attacks are related to abnormal activity within specific time periods.

After extracting all timestamps, I created a pandas DataFrame and converted the timestamps into one-minute intervals using the floor("min") function. I grouped the data by minute and counted how many requests occurred in each minute. This allowed me to transform the raw log file into structured traffic data over time.

df = pd.DataFrame(times, columns=["time"])
df["time"] = df["time"].dt.floor("min")
traffic = df.groupby("time").size().reset_index(name="count")

Next, I applied Linear Regression using sklearn. I created a simple numeric time index and used it as the independent variable, while the number of requests per minute was used as the dependent variable. The regression model helped me estimate the expected traffic trend over time.

traffic["x"] = range(len(traffic))
model = LinearRegression().fit(traffic[["x"]], traffic["count"])
pred = model.predict(traffic[["x"]])


Then, I calculated the difference between the real traffic and the predicted traffic from the regression model. This difference shows how much the actual traffic deviates from the normal trend.
To detect abnormal spikes, I used a statistical threshold: 

limit = res.mean() + 3 * res.std()

If the traffic exceeded this limit, I considered it a potential DDoS pattern.

Finally, I generated a graph to visually compare actual traffic and predicted traffic, and after that i have printed the results. 
The graph shows clearly where the spike has occurred and confirms the detected attack interval.
